---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: Marketing and UX collaboration.
datePublished: '2016-02-18T02:36:23.282Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-18T02:36:10.958Z'
title: '3 Reasons Marketing, Data and UX Teams Should Collaborate'
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-18-68404c42-907d-477d-a22e-5a282799c82b.md
published: true
url: 68404c42-907d-477d-a22e-5a282799c82b/index.html
_type: Article

---
If you've recently walked into the grocery store looking for milk, you may have noticed how long it took to find it. In fact, think back to every grocery store you've ever walked through and you'll recall that dairy items were far from the entrance. Dairy is one of the most common types of grocery purchases, and marketers have figured out how to make the walk longer (to increase impulse buys) and predictable (so you know where to find them across different stores).

The above example, commonly used in user experience (UX) discussions, aims to show how a team of marketers and designers work together to create an experience that is optimized for sales and functionality. However, marketing, data and UX teams are often segregated at many agencies and brands. Here are 3 reasons they should work more collaboratively to create effective advertising experiences.

### 1\. UX designers and marketers already have something in common

Both marketers and UX designers focus on the end user. The difference between the two is marketers know the end user as a "customer" and UX designers know them as the "user." The conflict occurs when marketers look to produce copy and creative that suits their audience.

By the time the creative makes it to the UX designer, the experience has to be built with constraints in place. This is a common problem when agencies work "together" but divide the creative responsibilities and deliverables. While collaboration between multiple agencies is a difficult ask, for brands who have both UX and marketing in-house, collaboration should be a necessity. Working together should not be mistaken for working collaboratively.

### 2\. Data-informed design can strengthen UX

Let's go back to the grocery store example for a moment. If I were to walk through a grocery store in Durham, North Carolina looking for milk, I'd end up in a dairy aisle with very little dairy found. This would be intentional, because if you live in Durham, you are in one of the[most vegan friendly cities in the U.S.][0]

Consider what would happen if a banner with a cow on it was pushed out in advance of knowing about Durham's vegan population. At best, after looking at the data, an expensive edit would occur. At worst, the banner would end up in stores where it wouldn't fit the demographic and do little to increase sales. Data-informed design helps create distinct UX experiences. In digital media, a great example of data-informed UX is serving a different creative based upon specific cookie data. This method can strengthen a user experience and increase engagement.

### 3\. The workforce is changing and collaboration is key

Open floor plans have been a growing trend for the past decade. Remote professionals are increasing year over year. The internet and technology have made collaboration a lot easier. The workforce is changing and in order for marketing companies to innovate, they must change the way they structure their teams.

[Division of work][1]and department creation were born out of the industrial era, to ensure that the wrong person wasn't behind a machine they couldn't operate. This division, while still necessary within certain industries, is less imperative in an industry where collaboration can not only ensure the task is met, but also that it is done more efficiently.

\*\*\*

About the Author

Agatha Zacharska is the founder and principal consultant at [DoubleThinkk][2]. She has spent time at both startups and Fortune 500s alike creating unique and intelligent advertising strategies. Follow her on [Twitter][3].

[0]: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/vegetarian-cities-in-america_us_56200629e4b050c6c4a4f155
[1]: http://www.rationalrevolution.net/articles/division_of_labor.htm
[2]: http://www.doublethinkk.com/
[3]: https://twitter.com/dblthinkk